Sr No	Question	Options	Answer
1	What syntax is used to render a dictionary of data in a template with the Django templating engine?	To store the current HTTP request object, To access data passed from the view function, To define template tags and filters, To hold global template variables	To access data passed from the view function	
2	How do you iterate over a list of objects in a Django template?	With an if statement for each object, Using a for loop with the {{ for }} template tag, Directly accessing the list's index, All of the above	Using a for loop with the {{ for }} template tag	
3	What is the difference between template tags and filters in Django?	Template tags are used for data display, while filters are used for data manipulation., Both can perform data display and manipulation, but filters have limited functionality., They are interchangeable, with no significant distinctions., Template tags modify data, while filters display formatted data	Template tags are used for data display, while filters are used for data manipulation.	
4	Which built-in template filters can be used to format dates and times in Django?	date, time, strftime, date, time, strftime, django.template.default.filters.date, django.template.default.filters.time, strftime, All of the above	All of the above	
5	How can you implement pagination in Django to display large datasets in smaller chunks?	Manually create multiple templates for different pages., Use the Paginator class from the django.core.paginator module., Write custom logic to handle page navigation and data splitting., All of the above are acceptable approaches.	Use the Paginator class from the django.core.paginator module.	
6	Which Django view class automatically creates pagination for a queryset?	DetailView, CreateView, UpdateView, ListView	ListView	
7	Which Django view function typically fetches model instances for display?	render(), get_object_or_404(), ListView.as_view(), DetailView.as_view()	ListView.as_view()	
8	How can you filter model instances displayed in a Django view?	Create a custom template tag , Pass filter arguments to the view function or class-based view , Modify the model's save() method, Use JavaScript in the template	Pass filter arguments to the view function or class-based view	
9	What is the purpose of the context_object_name attribute in class-based views?	To specify the template filename, To pass the queryset to the template, To define a custom context variable, To control model field visibility	To pass the queryset to the template	
10	What is the primary benefit of using Django's template language for displaying models?	Improved performance, Separation of concerns and reusability, Automatic data validation , Enhanced security against injection attacks	Separation of concerns and reusability	
