MCQs:

Which design pattern does Django follow?

a) MVC (Model-View-Controller)
b) MTV (Model-Template-View) ✅
c) MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel)
d) MVP (Model-View-Presenter)
Explanation: Django adheres to the MTV architecture, separating data (models), presentation (templates), and logic (views) for effective web development.

What is the primary purpose of Django ORM?

a) Manage application logic
b) Secure user authentication
c) Handle database interactions ✅
d) Serve static files
Explanation: Django ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) offers a simplified interface for interacting with databases, abstracting SQL query complexity.

What command creates a new Django project?

a) django-admin createproject ✅
b) django-admin startapp
c) python manage.py createproject
d) django-init
Explanation: django-admin createproject lays the foundation for your Django project structure.

What file contains global application settings in Django?

a) urls.py
b) models.py
c) settings.py ✅
d) wsgi.py
Explanation: settings.py stores crucial project configurations like database settings, secret keys, and more.

What are URL patterns in Django?

a) Database connection configurations
b) Templates for rendering HTML
c) Mapping URLs to corresponding views ✅
d) User account management tools
Explanation: URL patterns in urls.py dictate how Django routes incoming requests to appropriate views based on URL matches.

What Django template tag iterates over a list of objects?

a) {% for item in list %} ✅
b) {% if item in list %}
c) {% loop item in list %}
d) {% each item in list %}
Explanation: The {% for item in list %} tag iterates over elements in a list, allowing you to generate dynamic content in templates.

What is the role of context in Django views?

a) Defines database models
b) Specifies URL patterns
c) Holds data passed to templates ✅
d) Configures security settings
Explanation: The context dictionary in views carries data from models and other logic to be rendered in templates.

What does CSRF protection prevent in Django?

a) Unauthorized data modification
b) SQL injection attacks ✅
c) File upload vulnerabilities
d) User authentication failures
Explanation: CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) protection safeguards against malicious cross-site attacks by validating form submissions.

What middleware handles static file serving in Django?

a) AuthenticationMiddleware
b) CsrfViewMiddleware
c) SessionMiddleware
d) StaticFilesMiddleware ✅
Explanation: StaticFilesMiddleware ensures efficient delivery of static files (CSS, JavaScript, images) to user browsers.

What Django signal is emitted when a new user is created?

a) user_login
b) user_registred ✅
c) new_user
d) account_created
